.\" pkgman-diff(1) manual page
.\" See COPYING and COPYRIGHT files for corresponding information.
.Dd February 26, 2025
.Dt PKGMAN-DIFF 1
.Os
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh NAME
.Nm pkgman-diff
.Nd show differences between installed and available packages
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm pkgman
.Cm diff
.Op Fl \-all
.Op Fl \-deps
.Op Fl \-full
.Op Fl \-regex
.Op Fl \-filter Ns = Ns Ar expr
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Print an overview of packages that are installed and have a different
version than they are in the packages sources directories.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width XXXXXXX
.It Fl \-all
Display locked packages too.
.It Fl \-deps
Calculate the new dependencies for available packages.
.It Fl \-full
Show full table.
.It Fl \-regex
Interpret filter argument as a regular expression.
.It Fl \-filter Ns = Ns Ar expr
Filter listing packages by
.Ar expr .
The filter argument may be the string, wildcard in
.Xr fnmatch 3
format, or regex in
.Xr regex 3
format.
.El
.Pp
.Sy Note :
The comparison behaviour is influenced by the
.Sy preferhigher
configuration setting in
.Xr pkgman.conf 5 .
To modify the comparison behaviour for this operation only
.Po
e.g. to compare the packages using version comparison and show only
packages with higher version
.Pc
then call
.Xr pkgman 1
with custom
.Fl \-config-append
settings as shown below:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
pkgman --config-append="preferhigher yes" diff ...
.Ed
.\" vim: cc=72 tw=70
.\" End of file.
