.\" pkgman-rdep(1) manual page
.\" See COPYING and COPYRIGHT files for corresponding information.
.Dd September 9, 2023
.Dt PKGMAN-RDEP 1
.Os
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh NAME
.Nm pkgman-rdep
.Nd print reverse dependencies for a package
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm pkgman
.Cm rdep
.Op Fl v Ns | Ns Fl vv
.Op Fl \-path
.Op Fl \-all
.Op Fl \-tree
.Op Fl \-recursive
.Op Fl \-full
.Ar pkgname
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Print reverse dependencies for a package.
It looks in all packages sources directories specified in
.Pa /etc/pkgman.conf
as
.Dq pkgsrcdir
argument.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl v
Show package version in the listing.
.It Fl vv
Show package version and description in the listing.
.It Fl \-path
Show package source path in the listing.
.It Fl \-all
List all packages, not only installed.
.It Fl \-tree
Print a nicely indented tree of the package reverse dependencies.
.It Fl \-recursive
Print a recursive list of reverse dependencies.
In case
.Fl \-tree
was specified, subtrees already shown are marked with
.Dq \&-->
to save some space.
If
.Fl \-tree
option wasn't specified, reverse dependencies already shown are not
displayed.
In order to show them all, add the
.Fl \-full
option.
.It Fl \-full
If
.Fl \-recursive
option was set, show all dependencies.
.El
.\" vim: cc=72 tw=70
.\" End of file.
