.\" pkgman-sysup(8) manual page
.\" See COPYING and COPYRIGHT files for corresponding information.
.Dd September 9, 2023
.Dt PKGMAN-SYSUP 8
.Os
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh NAME
.Nm pkgman-sysup
.Nd update all outdated packages
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm pkgman
.Cm sysup
.Op Fl v Ns | Ns Fl vv
.Op Fl \-test
.Op Fl \-log
.Op Fl \-deps
.Op Fl \-depsort
.Op Fl \-group
.Op Fl \-margs Ns = Ns Ar pkgmk_args Ns | Ns Ar pkgmk_aliases
.Op Fl \-aargs Ns = Ns Ar pkgadd_args Ns | Ns Ar pkgadd_aliases
.Op Fl \-ignore Ns = Ns Ar pkgname Ns Op ,...
.Oo
.Fl \-install-scripts Ns | Ns
.Op Fl \-pre-install Ns
.Op Fl \-post-install
.Oc
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Update all installed packages which are outdated.
.Pp
Also see the
.Xr pkgman-lock 8
and
.Xr pkgman-unlock 8
commands to keep the currently installed versions, even if there are
changes in the packages sources directories.
.Pp
If you want to update only diffs which have a lower version installed
than the one in the packages sources directories, use the
.Fl \-prefer-higher
option.
.\" *** Options description: ***
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.\" *** -v
.It Fl v
Unused.
.\" *** -vv
.It Fl vv
Log to stdout the installation/updating process.
.\" *** --test
.It Fl \-test
Dry run, do not actually install/update anything.
.\" *** --log
.It Fl \-log
Create a transaction log file.
It can be set globally for all transactions
.Po
see
.Dq Li writelog
option in
.Xr pkgman.conf 5
.Pc .
.\" *** --deps
.It Fl \-deps
Update all packages including their new dependencies.
.\" *** --depsort
.It Fl \-depsort
Sort updating by dependencies.
.\" *** --group
.It Fl \-group
Update all packages, but stop if updating of one package fails.
.\" *** --margs=pkgmk_args
.It Sy --margs Ns = Ns Ar pkgmk_args
Arguments to be passed to
.Xr pkgmk 8 .
.\" *** pkgmk_aliases
.It Ar pkgmk_aliases
.Bl -tag -width XXX
.\" *** -fr
.It Fl fr
Force build, implies
.Dq Li pkgmk -f
.Po
same as
.Dq Li --margs=-f
.Pc .
.\" *** -um
.It Fl um
Update md5sum, implies
.Dq Li pkgmk -um
.Po
same as
.Dq Li --margs=-um
.Pc .
.\" *** -im
.It Fl im
Ignore md5sum, implies
.Dq Li pkgmk -im
.Po
same as
.Dq Li --margs=-im
.Pc .
.\" *** -uf
.It Fl uf
Update footprint, implies
.Dq Li pkgmk -uf
.Po
same as
.Dq Li --margs=-uf
.Pc .
.\" *** -if
.It Fl if
Ignore footprint, implies
.Dq Li pkgmk -if
.Po
same as
.Dq Li --margs=-if
.Pc .
.\" *** -ns
.It Fl ns
No stripping, implies
.Dq Li pkgmk -ns
.Po
same as
.Dq Li --margs=-ns
.Pc .
.\" *** -kw
.It Fl kw
Keep working directory, implies
.Dq Li pkgmk -kw
.Po
same as
.Dq Li --margs=-kw
.Pc .
.El
.\" *** --aargs=pkgadd_args
.It Fl \-aargs Ns = Ns Ar pkgadd_args
Arguments to be passed to
.Xr pkgadd 8 .
.\" *** pkgadd_args
.It Ar pkgadd_aliases
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.\" *** -f, -i
.It Fl f , Fl i
Force install, implies
.Dq Li pkgadd -f
.Po
same as
.Dq Li --aargs=-f
.Pc .
.El
.\" *** --ignore=pkgname[,...]
.It Fl \-ignore Ns = Ns Ar pkgname Ns Op ,...
Do not install/update those packages, even if they are listed as
dependency.
.\" *** --install-scripts
.It Fl \-install-scripts
Execute pre-install and post-install script if they are there.
.\" *** --pre-install
.It Fl \-pre-install
Execute pre-install script if it is there.
.\" *** --post-install
.It Fl \-post-install
Execute post-install scripts if it is there.
.El
.\" vim: cc=72 tw=70
.\" End of file.
