.\" pkgman.conf(5) manual page
.\" See COPYING and COPYRIGHT files for corresponding information.
.Dd February 26, 2025
.Dt PKGMAN.CONF 5
.Os
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh NAME
.Nm pkgman.conf
.Nd configuration file for pkgman
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm /etc/pkgman.conf
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This manual page describes the format of the
.Pa pkgman.conf
file, that contains information for
.Xr pkgman 1 .
.Pp
Every line can contain one configuration option.
The format of the lines is
.Dq Li key value .
Any lines
.Sy beginning
with a hash mark
.Po
.Ql \&#
.Pc
is ignored, as are lines containing only whitespace or empty lines.
.\" *** Options description: ***
.Pp
The valid configuration options are:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.\" *** pkgsrcdir path[:pkg[,...]]
.It Sy pkgsrcdir Em path Ns Op : Ns Em pkg Ns Op ,...
The location where to look for the packages sources.
The order of the
.Dq Li pkgsrcdir
options is important as if a package is in multiple directories,
.Xr pkgman 1
will use the one found first
.Pq directories listed first have precedence .
.Pp
If you want to restrict the packages used from one
.Dq Li pkgsrcdir ,
you can append a comma-separated list of packages to be used after the
path, using a colon mark
.Po
.Ql \&:
.Pc
to separate the two components.
.Bl -tag -width XXXX
.It Em path
The directory.
.It Em pkg
The final directory in the path.
.El
.Pp
Example:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# Use all packages from the path.
pkgsrcdir /usr/src/pkgsrc-core

# Use only mpv and ffmpeg packages from the path.
pkgsrcdir /usr/src/pkgsrc-desktop:mpv,ffmpeg
.Ed
.\" *** runscripts yes|no
.It Sy runscripts Em yes Ns | Ns Em no
Run pre/post-install and pre/post-remove scripts.
Influences
.Xr pkgman-install 8 ,
.Xr pkgman-update 8 ,
and
.Xr pkgman-sysup 8
operations.
.Pp
By default
.Dq Em no .
.\" *** preferhigher yes|no
.It Sy preferhigher Em yes Ns | Ns Em no
If set to
.Em yes ,
.Xr pkgman 1
will parse version strings and prefer the higher one, even if the one
found in the packages sources directories is lower.
Influences
.Xr pkgman-diff 1 ,
.Xr pkgman-list-dup 1 ,
and
.Xr pkgman-sysup 8
operations.
.Pp
By default
.Dq Em no .
.\" *** useregex yes|no
.It Sy useregex Em yes Ns | Ns Em no
If set to
.Em yes ,
.Xr pkgman 1
will interpret
.Dq Li expr
and
.Dq Li filter
patterns in
.Xr pkgman-list 1 ,
.Xr pkgman-printf 1 ,
.Xr pkgman-search 1 ,
.Xr pkgman-dsearch 1 ,
and
.Xr pkgman-fsearch 1
operations as regular expression in
.Xr regex 3
format.
.Pp
By default
.Dq Em no .
.\" *** readme verbose|compat|disabled
.It Sy readme Em verbose Ns | Ns Em compat Ns | Ns Em disabled
If the readme option is set to something different that
.Em disabled ,
.Xr pkgman 1
will notify the user if installed package has a README file.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "disabled" -compact
.It Em verbose
Print separate information about README files.
.It Em compact
Integrate in the result output.
.It Em disabled
No information about README files.
.El
.Pp
See
.Xr pkgman-readme 1
for information how to read those README files.
.Pp
By default
.Dq Em verbose .
.\" *** writelog enabled|disabled
.It Sy writelog Em enabled Ns | Ns Em disabled
Write the log for
.Xr pkgman-sysup 8 ,
.Xr pkgman-install 8 ,
.Xr pkgman-update 8 ,
and
.Xr pkgman-remove 8
operations.
.Pp
By default
.Dq Em disabled .
.\" *** logmode append|overwrite
.It Sy logmode Em append Ns | Ns Em overwrite
Write log mode.
.Pp
By default
.Dq Em overwrite .
.\" *** rmlog_on_success yes|no
.It Sy rmlog_on_success Em yes Ns | Ns Em no
When set to
.Em yes ,
log files of successful build will be removed.
.\" *** logfile format
.It Sy logfile Em format
The string that contains a path to the log file, where all occurrences
of next characters will be replaced by corresponding items:
.\" --- format ---
.Pp
.Bl -column Variable Description -compact
.It Sy Variable Ta Sy Description
.It \&%n Ta package name Ta
.It \&%p Ta package path Ta
.It \&%v Ta package version Ta
.It \&%r Ta package release number Ta
.El
.\" --- ----- ---
.Pp
Example:
.Dq Li /var/log/pkgbuild/%n.log
.Pp
Unset by default.
.\" *** makecommand command
.It Sy makecommand Em command
Use an alternate
.Em command
instead of
.Xr pkgmk 8
for the command which is used to build the package.
.\" *** addcommand command
.It Sy addcommand Em command
Use an alternate
.Em command
instead of
.Xr pkgadd 8
for the command which is used to install the package.
.\" *** removecommand command
.It Sy removecommand Em command
Use an alternate
.Em command
instead of
.Xr pkgrm 8
for the command which is used to remove the package.
.\" *** runscriptcommand command
.It Sy runscriptcommand Em command
Use an alternate command instead of
.Xr sh 1p
for the command which is used to run the pre/post-install and
pre/post-remove scripts.
.El
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal -offset indent
#
# /etc/pkgman.conf: pkgman(1) configuration
#
# See pkgman.conf(5) for more information.
#

# use local directory first
#pkgsrcdir /path/to/unofficial/pkgsrcs/

# zeppe-lin official
pkgsrcdir /usr/src/pkgsrc-core
pkgsrcdir /usr/src/pkgsrc-system
pkgsrcdir /usr/src/pkgsrc-xorg
pkgsrcdir /usr/src/pkgsrc-desktop

# log options
writelog enabled
logmode overwrite
rmlog_on_success yes
logfile /var/log/pkgbuild/%n.log

# notify the user about README files
readme verbose

# do not prefer higher versions in sysup / diff
preferhigher no

# do not use regex search
useregex no

# run pre/post-install and pre/post-remove scripts
runscripts yes

# End of file.
.Ed
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pkgman 1
.\" vim: cc=72 tw=70
.\" End of file.
