.\" pkgman-remove(8) manual page
.\" See COPYING and COPYRIGHT files for corresponding information.
.Dd September 9, 2023
.Dt PKGMAN-REMOVE 8
.Os
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh NAME
.Nm pkgman-remove
.Nd remove installed packages
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm pkgman
.Cm remove
.Op Fl v | Fl vv
.Op Fl \-test
.Op Fl \-log
.Op Fl \-deps
.Op Fl \-force
.Op Fl \-group
.Op Fl \-rargs Ns = Ns Ar pkgrm_args
.Op Fl \-ignore Ns = Ns Ar pkgname Ns Op ,...
.Oo
.Fl \-remove-scripts |
.Op Fl \-pre-remove
.Op Fl \-post-remove
.Oc
.Ar pkgname ...
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Remove all installed packages in the listed order.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width XXXXXXX
.It Fl v
Unused.
.It Fl vv
Log to stdout the removing process.
.It Fl \-test
Dry run, do not actually remove anything.
.It Fl \-log
Create a transaction log file.
It can be set globally for all transactions
.Po
see
.Dq Li writelog
in
.Xr pkgman.conf 5
.Pc .
.It Fl \-deps
Remove all packages in the listed order including their dependencies.
.It Fl \-force
Skip removing of already removed package(s).
Just ignore the package and remove next in the listed order.
At the end of installation procedure, all skipped packages will be in
the report.
.It Fl \-group
Remove all packages in the listed order, but stop if removing of one
package fails.
.It Fl \-rargs Ns = Ns Ar pkgrm_args
Arguments to be passed to
.Xr pkgrm 8 .
.It Fl \-ignore Ns = Ns Ar pkgname Ns Op ,...
Do not remove those packages, even if they are listed as dependency.
.It Fl \-remove-scripts
Execute pre-remove and post-remove script if they are there.
.It Fl \-pre-remove
Execute pre-remove script if it is there.
.It Fl \-post-remove
Execute post-remove scripts if it is there.
.El
.\" vim: cc=72 tw=70
.\" End of file.
