.\" pkgman-printf(1) manual page
.\" See COPYING and COPYRIGHT files for corresponding information.
.Dd September 9, 2023
.Dt PKGMAN-PRINTF 1
.Os
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh NAME
.Nm pkgman-printf
.Nd print formatted list of available packages
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm pkgman
.Cm printf
.Op Fl \-sort Ns = Ns Ar format
.Op Fl \-regex
.Op Fl \-filter Ns = Ns Ar expr
.Ar format
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Print formatted list of available packages.
It looks in all packages sources directories specified in
.Pa /etc/pkgman.conf
as
.Dq pkgsrcdir
argument.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl \-sort Ns = Ns Ar format
The
.Ar format
string (see below) that is used to sort the output.
.It Fl \-regex
Interpret
.Fl \-filter
argument as a regular expression.
.It Fl \-filter Ns = Ns Ar expr
Filter listing package names by
.Ar expr .
The
.Fl \-filter
argument may be the string, wildcard in
.Xr fnmatch 3
format, or regex in
.Xr regex 3
format.
.It Ar format
The string that contains variables, which are replaced like this:
.Pp
.\" --- format ---
.Bl -column Variable "has post-install" Replacement -compact
.It Sy Variable Ta Sy Description Ta Sy Replacement
.It \&%n Ta name Ta
.It \&%p Ta path Ta
.It \&%v Ta version Ta
.It \&%r Ta release number Ta
.It \&%d Ta description Ta
.It \&%e Ta dependencies Ta
.It \&%u Ta URL Ta
.It \&%P Ta packager Ta
.It \&%M Ta maintainer Ta
.It \&%R Ta has README Ta yes Ns / Ns no
.It \&%A Ta has pre-install Ta yes/no
.It \&%B Ta has post-install Ta yes/no
.It \&%C Ta has pre-remove Ta yes/no
.It \&%D Ta has post-remove Ta yes/no
.It \&%l Ta is locked Ta yes/no
.It \&%i Ta is installed Ta yes/no/diff
.El
.Pp
The
.Dq diff
replacement for
.Dq \&%i
(is installed) variable means the package is installed and different
package version is available in the packages sources directories.
.El
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh EXIT STATUS
0 if success, 255 if packages not found.
.\" vim: cc=72 tw=70
.\" End of file.
