.\" pkgman(1) manual page
.\" See COPYING and COPYRIGHT files for corresponding information.
.Dd September 9, 2023
.Dt PKGMAN 1
.Os
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh NAME
.Nm pkgman
.Nd advanced package management tool
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm pkgman
.Op Fl Vh
.Op Fl \-no-std-config
.Op Fl \-config Ns = Ns Ar conffile
.Op Fl \-config-set Ns = Ns Qq Ar string
.Op Fl \-config-append Ns = Ns Qq Ar string
.Op Fl \-config-prepend Ns = Ns Qq Ar string
.Op Fl \-root Ns = Ns Ar rootdir
.Op Fl \&-
.Ar command Op Ar args
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a package management tool that provides additional functionality to
basic package management utilities, like
.Xr pkgmk 8 ,
.Xr pkgadd 8 ,
.Xr pkgrm 8 ,
and
.Xr pkginfo 1 .
.Ss Generic Options
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
Each
.Ar command
has its own set of specific options and arguments.
The following options are common to all commands:
.\" *** Options description: ***
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl \&-no-std-config
Ignore default
.Pf ( Pa /etc/pkgman.conf )
configuration file.
.It Fl \&-config Ns = Ns Ar conffile
Use an alternate configuration file instead of the default
.Pa /etc/pkgman.conf .
.It Fl \&-config-set Ns = Ns Qq Ar string
Set
.Ar string
in configuration, overriding configuration file.
.It Fl \&-config-append Ns = Ns Qq Ar string
Append
.Ar string
to configuration.
.It Fl \&-config-prepend Ns = Ns Qq Ar string
Prepend
.Ar string
to configuration.
.It Fl \&-root Ns = Ns Ar rootdir
Specify an alternate root directory instead of the default
.Ql / .
.It Fl V , Fl \&-version
Print program version and exit.
.It Fl h , Fl \&-help
Print the
.Ar command Ns \&'s
help (actually the manual page) if
.Ar command
specified.
Otherwise, print this manual page as a help message.
.It Fl \&-
Double dash
.Dq Fl \&-
signals the end of options and disables further option processing.
Any arguments after the
.Dq Fl \&-
are treated as
.Ar command
and/or
.Ar command Ns \&'s
arguments.
It helps to specify
.Ar command
arguments that starts with
.Dq Fl \&-
and
.Nm
won't confuse it with an option.
For example:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
pkgman search --regex -- -lib
-- search ([i] = installed)
[i] alsa-lib
[i] p5-libwww
[...]

pkgman --regex -- search -lib
-- search ([i] = installed)
[i] alsa-lib
[i] p5-libwww
[...]
.Ed
.El
.\"
.Ss Commands
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.Nm
uses so-called commands, which always have to be the first non-option
argument passed.
The commands can be divided into the following self-explanatory
categories:
.\" *** Commands description: ***
.Pp
.Sy Informational
.Bl -tag -width "pkgman-list-nodependents(1)" -compact
.It Xr pkgman-dumpconfig 1
dump the configuration
.It Xr pkgman-list 1
print list of available packages
.It Xr pkgman-list-dup 1
print list of duplicate packages
.It Xr pkgman-list-nodependents 1
print list of packages that no other depends on them
.It Xr pkgman-list-locked 1
print list of locked packages
.It Xr pkgman-list-orphans 1
print list of orphaned packages
.It Xr pkgman-printf 1
print formatted list of available packages
.It Xr pkgman-info 1
print package info
.It Xr pkgman-readme 1
print the package's README
.It Xr pkgman-path 1
print path to package source
.It Xr pkgman-isinst 1
print whether packages are installed or not
.It Xr pkgman-current 1
print installed package version
.It Xr pkgman-diff 1
print the differences between installed and available packages
.El
.Pp
.Sy Dependencies
.Bl -tag -width "pkgman-list-nodependents(1)" -compact
.It Xr pkgman-dep 1
print dependencies for a package
.It Xr pkgman-rdep 1
print reverse dependencies for a package
.El
.Pp
.Sy Searching
.Bl -tag -width "pkgman-list-nodependents(1)" -compact
.It Xr pkgman-search 1
search the packages sources directories for package name
.It Xr pkgman-dsearch 1
search the packages sources directories for package name
.Sy and
description
.It Xr pkgman-fsearch 1
search the packages sources directories for a file in package footprint
.El
.Pp
.Sy Install / Update / Remove
.Bl -tag -width "pkgman-list-nodependents(1)" -compact
.It Xr pkgman-install 8
install package(s)
.It Xr pkgman-update 8
update installed package(s)
.It Xr pkgman-remove 8
remove installed package(s)
.El
.Pp
.Sy System Update
.Bl -tag -width "pkgman-list-nodependents(1)" -compact
.It Xr pkgman-sysup 8
update all outdated packages
.It Xr pkgman-lock 8
lock the package(s)
.It Xr pkgman-unlock 8
unlock the package(s)
.El
.Pp
.Sy File Operations
.Bl -tag -width "pkgman-list-nodependents(1)" -compact
.It Xr pkgman-ls 1
print out a listing of the package's directory
.It Xr pkgman-cat 1
print out the package's file
.It Xr pkgman-edit 8
edit the package's file
.El
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa /etc/pkgman.conf
Configuration file.
See
.Xr pkgman.conf 5
for more information.
.It Pa /var/lib/pkg/db
Database of currently installed packages.
.It Pa /var/lib/pkg/locked
Database of currently locked packages.
Used by
.Xr pkgman-lock 8 ,
.Xr pkgman-unlock 8
and
.Xr pkgman-list-locked 1 .
.El
.Pp
.Sy Note :
When the
.Fl \&-root Ns = Ns Ar rootdir
option is specified, both databases location changes to
.Ar rootdir Ns
.Pa /var/lib/pkg/db
and
.Ar rootdir Ns
.Pa /var/lib/pkg/locked
respectively.
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pkgman.conf 5
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh AUTHORS
Originally written by
.An Johannes Winkelmann Aq Mt jw@tks6.net
as
.Dq Sy prt-get
tool for
.Lk http://crux.nu "CRUX" .
.Pp
This implementation was extensively re-worked for
.Lk "https://zeppe\-lin.github.io" "Zeppe-Lin"
by
.An Alexandr Savca Aq Mt alexandr.savca89@gmail.com .
.\" vim: cc=72 tw=70
.\" End of file.
