.\" pkgman-update(8) manual page
.\" See COPYING and COPYRIGHT files for corresponding information.
.Dd September 9, 2023
.Dt PKGMAN-UPDATE 8
.Os
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh NAME
.Nm pkgman-update
.Nd update packages
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm pkgman
.Cm update
.Op Fl v | Fl vv
.Op Fl \-test
.Op Fl \-log
.Op Fl \-deps
.Op Fl \-depsort
.Op Fl \-force
.Op Fl \-group
.Op Fl \-margs Ns = Ns Ar pkgmk_args | Ar pkgmk_aliases
.Op Fl \-aargs Ns = Ns Ar pkgadd_args | Ar pkgadd_aliases
.Op Fl \-ignore Ns = Ns Ar pkgname Ns Op ,...
.Oo
.Fl \-install-scripts |
.Op Fl \-pre-install
.Op Fl \-post-install
.Oc
.Ar pkgname ...
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Update all packages in the listed order.
It looks in all packages sources directories specified in
.Pa /etc/pkgman.conf
as
.Dq pkgsrcdir
argument.
.\" *** Options description: ***
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.\" *** -v
.It Fl v
Unused.
.\" *** -vv
.It Fl vv
Log to stdout the updating process.
.\" *** --test
.It Fl \-test
Dry run, do not actually update anything.
.\" *** --log
.It Fl \-log
Create a transaction log file.
It can be set globally for all transactions
.Po
see
.Dq Li writelog
option in
.Xr pkgman.conf 5
.Pc .
.\" *** --deps
.It Fl \-deps
Update all packages in the listed order including their dependencies.
.\" *** --depsort
.It Fl \-depsort
Sort updating by dependencies.
.\" *** --force
.It Fl \-force
Skip installation of already installed package(s).
Just ignore the package and install next in the listed order.
At the end of installation procedure, all skipped packages will be in
the report.
.\" *** --group
.It Fl \-group
Update all packages in the listed order, but stop if updating of one
package fails.
This can be used to update packages where
.Em package2
depends on
.Em package1 .
.\" *** --margs=pkgmk_args
.It Fl \-margs Ns = Ns Ar pkgmk_args
Arguments to be passed to
.Xr pkgmk 8 .
.\" *** pkgmk_aliases
.It Ar pkgmk_aliases
.Bl -tag -width XXX
.\" *** -fr
.It Fl fr
Force build, implies
.Dq Li pkgmk -f
.Po
same as
.Fl \-margs=-f
.Pc .
.\" *** -um
.It Fl um
Update md5sum, implies
.Dq Li pkgmk -um
.Po
same as
.Fl \-margs=-um
.Pc .
.\" *** -im
.It Fl im
Ignore md5sum, implies
.Dq Li pkgmk -im
.Po
same as
.Fl \-margs=-im
.Pc .
.\" *** -uf
.It Fl uf
Update footprint, implies
.Dq Li pkgmk -uf
.Po
same as
.Fl \-margs=-uf
.Pc .
.\" *** -if
.It Fl if
Ignore footprint, implies
.Dq Li pkgmk -if
.Po
same as
.Fl \-margs=-if
.Pc .
.\" *** -ns
.It Fl ns
No stripping, implies
.Dq Li pkgmk -ns
.Po
same as
.Fl \-margs=-ns
.Pc .
.\" *** -kw
.It Fl kw
Keep working directory, implies
.Dq Li pkgmk -kw
.Po
same as
.Fl \-margs=-kw
.Pc .
.El
.\" *** --aargs=pkgadd_args
.It Fl \-aargs Ns = Ns Ar pkgadd_args
Arguments to be passed to
.Xr pkgadd 8 .
.\" *** pkgadd_aliases
.It Ar pkgadd_aliases
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.\" *** -f, -i
.It Fl f , Fl i
Force install, implies
.Dq Li pkgadd -f
.Po
same as
.Fl \-aargs=-f
.Pc .
.El
.\" *** --ignore=pkgname[,...]
.It Fl \-ignore Ns = Ns Ar pkgname Ns Op ,...
Do not install those packages, even if they are listed as dependency.
.\" *** --install-scripts
.It Fl \-install-scripts
Execute pre-install and post-install script if they are there.
.\" *** --pre-install
.It Fl \-pre-install
Execute pre-install script if it is there.
.\" *** --post-install
.It Fl \-post-install
Execute post-install scripts if it is there.
.El
.\" vim: cc=72 tw=70
.\" End of file.
