=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

pkgman-printf - print formatted list of available packages

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<pkgman> printf [B<--sort>=I<FORMAT>] [B<--regex>]
[B<--filter>=I<PKGNAME>] I<FORMAT>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Print formatted list of available packages.  It looks in all packages
sources directories specified in F</etc/pkgman.conf> as C<pkgsrcdir>
directories.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 8

=item B<--sort>=I<FORMAT>

The I<FORMAT> string (see below) that is used to sort the output.

=item B<--regex>

Interpret filter argument as a regular expression.

=item B<--filter>=I<PKGNAME>

Filter listing packages by name.  The filter option argument may be
the string, wildcard or regex.

=item I<FORMAT>

The string that contains variables, which are replaced like this:

=begin man

.TS
center, box, expand, tab (|) ;
l | l | l
l | l | l.
Format | Description | Replacement
_
.SP
%n | name
%p | path
%v | version
%r | release number
%d | description
%e | dependencies
%u | url
%P | packager
%M | maintainer
%R | has readme               | yes/no
%A | has pre-install script   | yes/no
%B | has post-install script  | yes/no
%C | has pre-remove script    | yes/no
%D | has post-remove script   | yes/no
%l | is locked                | yes/no
%i | is installed             | yes/no/diff
.TE

=end man

=begin html

  <table>
    <tr>
      <th>Format</th>
      <th>Description</th>
      <th>Replacement</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&percnt;n</td>
      <td>name</td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&percnt;p</td>
      <td>path</td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&percnt;v</td>
      <td>version</td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&percnt;r</td>
      <td>release number</td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&percnt;d</td>
      <td>description</td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&percnt;e</td>
      <td>dependencies</td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&percnt;u</td>
      <td>url</td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&percnt;P</td>
      <td>packager</td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&percnt;M</td>
      <td>maintainer</td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&percnt;R</td>
      <td>has readme</td>
      <td>yes/no</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&percnt;A</td>
      <td>has pre-install script</td>
      <td>yes/no</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&percnt;B</td>
      <td>has post-install script</td>
      <td>yes/no</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&percnt;C</td>
      <td>has pre-remove script</td>
      <td>yes/no</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&percnt;D</td>
      <td>has post-remove script</td>
      <td>yes/no</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&percnt;l</td>
      <td>is locked</td>
      <td>yes/no</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&percnt;i</td>
      <td>is installed</td>
      <td>yes/no/diff</td>
    </tr>
  </table>

=end html

"diff" for "%i" (is installed) format means the package is installed
and different package version is available in the packages sources
directories.

=back

=cut

# vim:sw=2:ts=2:sts=2:et:cc=72:tw=70
# End of file.
